there are several extractor factorings
in IntelliJ IDEA including extract
method extract variable and extract
parameter and with the extract parameter
of factoring allows you to do is select
expression inside a method and quickly
pull out or parameterize that expression
in a few simple keystrokes you can see
that that expressions return type will
be added as a new parameter to the
method and then any places that call the
method will pass in that value as an
argument so you can do that by placing
your cursor over the value in the code
and pressing ctrl or command alt P now
if that parameter happens to be in the
form of a chained method call then I can
just place the cursor over the value
that I'd like to extract and do the same
to add it as a parameter however if you
look carefully you'll notice that you
won't be able to parametrize an
expression that returns a void type such
as this call to print line with the
introduction of lambdas and functional
interfaces in Java 8 it's now possible
to extract a functional expression by
pressing ctrl or command alt shift P
which will automatically match the shape
of the inbound variables and return type
with an appropriate functional interface
so here we can choose a by function and
then that by function will be introduced
as a parameter in the method signature
with its definition introduced at the
call site by default it will use the
anonymous inner class syntax so it can
be compatible with Java 6 and 7 however
you can migrate to the Java 8 syntax
with the intention action and if you'd
like to inline any of these parameters
or reverse the extract parameter or
factor and you can simply do so by
pressing ctrl or command alt n to inline
the same parameter back to its original
position